precompile/test/call_contexts/set_code = Covered in EIP-7702 cases
precompile/test/call_contexts/normal = Covered in osaka/eip7883_modexp_gas_increase
precompile/test/call_contexts/delegate = Covered in osaka/eip7883_modexp_gas_increase
precompile/test/call_contexts/static = Covered in osaka/eip7883_modexp_gas_increase
precompile/test/call_contexts/callcode = Covered in osaka/eip7883_modexp_gas_increase
precompile/test/call_contexts/tx_entry = Covered in osaka/eip7883_modexp_gas_increase
precompile/test/call_contexts/initcode/CREATE = Covered in osaka/eip7883_modexp_gas_increase
precompile/test/call_contexts/initcode/tx = Covered in osaka/eip7883_modexp_gas_increase
precompile/test/call_contexts/set_code = Covered in osaka/eip7883_modexp_gas_increase
precompile/test/inputs/valid = Covered in osaka/eip7883_modexp_gas_increase
precompile/test/inputs/valid/boundary = Covered in osaka/eip7883_modexp_gas_increase
precompile/test/inputs/all_zeros = Covered in osaka/eip7883_modexp_gas_increase
precompile/test/inputs/invalid = Covered in osaka/eip7883_modexp_gas_increase
precompile/test/inputs/invalid/crypto = Covered in osaka/eip7883_modexp_gas_increase
precompile/test/inputs/invalid/corrupted = Covered in osaka/eip7883_modexp_gas_increase
precompile/test/value_transfer/no_fee = Covered in osaka/eip7883_modexp_gas_increase
precompile/test/out_of_bounds/max_plus_one = Covered in osaka/eip7883_modexp_gas_increase
precompile/test/input_lengths/zero = Covered in osaka/eip7883_modexp_gas_increase
precompile/test/input_lengths/dynamic/valid = Covered in osaka/eip7883_modexp_gas_increase
precompile/test/input_lengths/dynamic/too_long = Covered in osaka/eip7883_modexp_gas_increase
precompile/test/gas_usage/dynamic/exact = Covered in osaka/eip7883_modexp_gas_increase
precompile/test/gas_usage/dynamic/oog = Covered in osaka/eip7883_modexp_gas_increase
precompile/test/excessive_gas_usage = Covered in osaka/eip7883_modexp_gas_increase
precompile/test/fork_transition/after/warm = Covered in osaka/eip7883_modexp_gas_increase
gas_cost_changes/test/gas_updates_measurement = Covered in osaka/eip7883_modexp_gas_increase
gas_cost_changes/test/fork_transition/before = Covered in osaka/eip7883_modexp_gas_increase
gas_cost_changes/test/fork_transition/after = Covered in osaka/eip7883_modexp_gas_increase